Rosacea is a chronic skin condition
that usually starts in middle age.
Patches of skin on the cheeks, nose, chin,
and forehead become red and inflamed
around hair follicles and tiny glands
in the skin that produce oil.
The exact cause is not known
but the symptoms are thought to be due
to a disorder of the blood vessels just under the skin.
Rosacea usually starts as a mild
flush that comes and goes.
It can affect specific areas
or cover the whole face.
As rosacea progresses,
the redness can become more intense.
There may be spots, bumps
or skin eruptions that look like acne.
Tiny red blood vessels may be visible.
There may be swelling,
and the nose may become red and bulbous,
a condition known as rhinophyma.